hello after commitment hello you
are visceral surgery approved by
the hospital of the adhuc and users of the
robotic system davinci since how much
of time perished you with a dress or
so I started in 2003 I followed
a training module in paris and i
started my first operations in
a clinic that had done
the acquisition in Geneva of the robot davinci
and so it is from 2003 that I have
carried out my first operations for
what type of intervention is it indicated
then their avicii goal is indicated in
several interventions concerning
different specialties
as far as my specialty is concerned it is
useful for rectal surgery
especially the deep rectum where access
is difficult and thanks to this device we
can have easier access to this
anatomical site
to perform this operation in between
eaters use it especially for the
lease because we realize in people
obese or need to make sutures and
rest allows futures to be very
precise and diminish others
complications compared to the
classic method charge surgery
pure laparoscopic for this type
operating outside of it like you
probably know the robot is very
used especially for the ablation of the
prostate
because the prostate is located like the
deep rectum at a very
difficult to access and so this robot us
allows access to it with great
security and high accuracy
obviously other specialties
are interested in this technology the
gynecological surgery of surgery
orl and cardiovascular surgery
what are the benefits for the
Chinese
then the benefits to the surgeon
firstly its are located at the level
of vision we have a 3d vision
while in appearance standard copy
we have a given vision like that
when you watch TV and
the thanks to two optical channels in the
camera we get a 3d vision so a
very very high precision and comfort
visual that makes operations less
tiring in more than you can the
see here I'm sitting at the foot of this
console and my arms are rested and
I operate my controllers in a
much more ergonomic position than
the one we have when we do
laparoscopic surgery my standard and
sometimes in very visual positions
very vicious and very tiring for them
arm but for the back the hospital is
studied this system since 2008 already
but it's the first the only one
profit private institution in care
French-speaking Switzerland to acquire at all
latest model the fixed dai-ichi robot
what is your opinion on this
investment so I think that in
actually when we did
the acquisition of the first robot in
this clinic
a few years later came out the
next model and you know it's a
like tablets and
smartphones buy you the last
model is the following already in
preparation
I believe that the tower hospital has
not to invest in the model
next that was not a big plus
compared to the model we
owned up to now by cons
this is not the case with the model xxi
currently that allows that offers
greatly additional possibilities
compared to the in relation to
last generations who was on the
market so I think it's a very
good idea to have a crucible for this
new model lately a report
of the show present time has put in
light the risks associated with the use
surgeries have not got enough
driven
does he know at the tower hospital in
this subject so I think this
issue raised very points
important with regard to
the surgeons to my knowledge with
everything at the tower all follow
training modules and are closely
framed by the mother house who she
same product and delivers his devices
why because for the parent company
it's very important that it's not
complication the least possible I believe
that the show you're doing
reference to emphasize I think of
human errors of the surgeon and not
no machine so you really have to
to prepare and be the best possible
trained to this type of device
and then some have already proposed
make certificates to repeat in
the time every six months or every
years with simulators and revalidate to
every time his his level of training
I think we'll get there and it's very
important